# Meeting 1

## Date: Apr 2nd, 2024, Tuesday, 9-10 AM PST

## How to add an agenda topic?
Any attendee can add an agenda topic by creating a pull request on this file and adding more topics in the agenda below.

## Agenda
- Revisiting Flow Governance Working Group overview & logistics
- Governance OKRs
- Tokenomics - EVM fees, Computation limit, Transaction fee
- Flow Inflation
- FLIPs update
- Node Operations inviting applications
- Q&A

## Attendees
Deniz Mert Edincik, Diego Fornalha, Kshitij Chaudhary, Michael Levy, Ryan Kagy, Vishal Changrani

## Key Decisions, Goals & Outcomes

1. Finalize and release a forum post proposing a 5000:1 conversion ratio between EVM gas and Cadence computation, a 5x increase in computation limit for Flow Cadence, and a 100x raise in transaction fees.

2. Continue research efforts to explore various methodologies for addressing inflation, as discussed during the meeting. This includes investigating predictable annual reductions, implementing caps on maximum token issuance, tying reward rates to FLOW market price, and considering differential reward rates for varying staking/lock-up durations. Publish a forum post to gather community feedback and develop an open-source economic model for the community to play around with.

3. Drive analysis to assess the impact of the transaction fee increase on community partners, such as wallets and other ecosystem providers who subsidize fees for the end users.

4. Extend invitations to new node operators to participate in running consensus nodes, with 5 open slots available.

## Summary

The Flow Governance Working Group convened on April 2nd (Tuesday), starting with a review of discussions from the previous meeting, which focused on gaining insight into the three fundamental pillars of Flow governance: Tokenomics, inclusivity (community-driven governance), and network decentralization. Both short and long-term objectives of the governance working group were shared with the community, along with logistical details regarding the GWG meetings (and the change in timing as proposed by the community during the last session). Updates on the current governance Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) were provided, highlighting three main proposals: firstly, a proposal to adjust the gas to computation ratio to 5000:1; secondly, a proposal to increase the computation limit for Flow Cadence transactions by 5x; and thirdly, a proposal to raise the transaction fees on Flow by 100x across the board.

A comprehensive exploration of various strategies to reduce inflation was conducted during the meeting, encompassing ideas such as predictable annual reductions, the implementation of caps on maximum token issuance, and the linkage of reward rates to FLOW market price. Members also proposed considering the determination of the optimal level of inflation for Flow, the timeline to achieve it, and the possibility of introducing differential reward rates for different staking/lock-up durations to incentivize more token locking in the ecosystem while possibly also reducing overall inflation. The meeting concluded with a reminder to watch out for upcoming forum posts detailing the key tokenomics proposals and inviting community to share candid feedback.
