# Meeting 03

**joint meeting of the [Core Protocol Working Group](https://github.com/onflow/Flow-Working-Groups/tree/main/core_protocol_working_group&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1715626269987743&usg=AOvVaw3xNADeHWNuPnhG2Dc4JdkJ)
and the [Cadence Language and Execution Working Group](https://github.com/onflow/Flow-Working-Groups/tree/main/cadence_language_and_execution_working_group&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1715626269987743&usg=AOvVaw0cAlXS0qgEpWxMydqQNwmY)**


**Date**: May 15, 2024 (Wednesday), 10-11am PT (17-18:00 UTC)

please see [Agenda in the `Cadence Language and Execution Working Group`](https://github.com/onflow/Flow-Working-Groups/tree/main/cadence_language_and_execution_working_group/meetings/2024-05-15.md) for details

