# Meeting 07 - Core Protocol Working Group

**Date**: October 31, 2024 (Thursday), 10-11am PT

## Agenda
1. Data Access across HCUs (different FVM-Cadence) 
2. ???

:pencil: :point_right: Anyone can **add agenda topics** by creating a pull request on this file and extending the list above.


**Attendees:** 

## Meeting Content [proposal, subject to edits during Working Group Meeting]


### 1. Data Access across HCUs (different FVM-Cadence)

**Overview** 
1. New cadence version feature will help Execution Nodes since it will allow toggling between 2 versions,
   with the old code being removed quickly after the upgrade. It won't help on Access Nodes [ANs] since they need to maintain many versions.
2. We have plans to add support for running multiple cadence versions on a single ANs, but at best a PoC will be ready in this cycle.
3. We can theoretically create "historic" ANs for each HCU, but that will require code changes to ANs and additional infra
4. For now, we decide on a case-by-case basis whether or not it is safe to consider 2 versions compatible.
   If they are not, we don't have a great answer for accessing state on ANs across HCUs.
5. The EVM-Gateway issue will be resolved by the local index feature that Ramtin and Janez are working on, but that's still a couple of months away from being operationalized.


## Key Outcomes [proposal, subject to edits during Working Group Meeting]

### 1. Data Access across HCUs (different FVM-Cadence)

**1. Versioning Scheme**

semantic versioning `major.minor.patch`, where all versions with the same `major.minor` are upwards _and_ downwards compatible? 


**2. Rough outline of development roadmap**

1. design doc & scope for cross HCU ANs (and EVM gateway)
2. extend Dynamic Protocol State:
   - add FVM-Cadence version field
   - new service event that specifies a new version value (to be consumed by the Dynamic Protocol State) 
   - state machine for updating version field in Dynamic Protocol State based on service event.
3. system smart contracts can emit service events that update the FVM-Cadence version in the Dynamic Protocol State
4. Re-work HCU mechanism on execution, verification and ANs to utilize Dynamic Protocol State


### Links and further reading

**This Working Group Meeting**
- Meeting Transcript: [<file name>](./yyyy-mm-dd_transcript.md)
- Video Recoding: [Flow Core Protocol Working Group – 2024/10/31 09:55 PDT – Recording](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1WMECJSa-ySSNvcuPFhFn8d7m8dAXL6b7)

**Further reading**
- For prior discussion on versioning the consensus stack, see [2024-05-23_Versioning_sub-working-group.md](./2024-05-23_Versioning_sub-working-group.md).
- issue https://github.com/onflow/flow-go/issues/5324 for writing a versioning FLIP (please drop thoughts, comments, questions etc in this issue)
