# Meeting 01 - Core Protocol Working Group

**Date**: March 28, 2024 (Thursday), 10-11am PT

## Agenda 
1. [**Path to Zero-downtime protocol upgrades**](https://github.com/onflow/Flow-Working-Groups/tree/main/core_protocol_working_group#path-to-zero-downtime-protocol-upgrades):

   We start this meeting with Yurii briefly summarizing the `Key-Value Store`'s central abilities and his thoughts on coordinating software upgrades without sporks.

   _Recap:_ In the last meeting ([video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VSnVyZpxQuNhbqB_UFlG-_Im78G_yvod/view?usp=drive_link)) Yurii introduced
   the [Dynamic Protocol State](https://github.com/onflow/Flow-Working-Groups/tree/main/core_protocol_working_group#dynamic-protocol-state-as-a-foundation-for-threat-response-capabilities-eg-ban-slashed-node-revoke-compromised-keys-software-upgrades).
   In a nutshell, the Protocol State is an API in the node software, which allows higher-level protocol logic to get various data about the known blocks and forks,
   such as their finalization and sealing state, which nodes are allowed to participate as of a certain block, and supplemental information about the state of the Epoch switchover.
   The old Protocol State was a very static shortcut, which could not change throughout an epoch. For security reasons, such as ejection of byzantine nodes, this was insufficient.    
   The new Dynamic Protocol State will reach Mainnet at the next Network Upgrade. Specifically, the Dynamic Protocol State includes a framework for storing a snapshot of protocol-defined
   parameters and supplemental protocol-data into each block. Correct evolution of this data store is guaranteed by BFT consensus.
   Yurii explained how the Epoch-switchover already utilizes the Dynamic-Protocol-State's ability to embed a cryptographic commitment of structured data into each block,
   and to evolve this data according to custom logic. We are currently generalizing this feature into a `Key-Value Store` and making it available as a tool for many areas of the flow protocol.      

2. Entry discussion on **HCU-style upgrades for all node roles**

   This will likely require follow-up meetings in a focused sub-working-group. Everyone is welcome with the interest to go technically deep and shaping the next level of flow protocol updates!  

3. Brief overview of **Tuning Flow's Main Consensus** :point_right: [technical exploration](https://www.notion.so/flowfoundation/Cruise-Control-headroom-for-speedups-46dc17e07ae14462b03341e4432a907d?pvs=4) (according to available time)
   
   Proposing a concrete parameter set will likely require a dedicated sub-working-group. 

## Attendees:
Akos Erdos,
Andrii Diachuk,
Giovanni Sanchez,
Janez Podhostnik,
Kan Zhang,
Khalil Claybon,
Kshitij Chaudhary,
Navid TehraniFar,
Peter Argue,
Ramtin Seraj,
Sjon-Paul Brown,
Tarak Ben Youssef,
Uliana Andrukhiv,
Vishal Changrani,
Yurii Oleksyshyn,
Andrii Slisarchuk

## Meeting Content

### 1. Key-Value Store for coordinating software upgrades without sporks

> proposal from Yurii Oleksyshyn


### 2. HCU-style upgrades for all node roles

#### Status Quo
Strong limitations of existing Height-Coordinated Updates [HCU] for Execution Nodes [ENs]
1. Only implemented for ENs
2. Requires time-sensitive (manual) coordination upfront and node operator standby during HCU
3. One-time event that all affected nodes need to observe

   Failure scenario:
    * HCU event emitted before Epoch switchover, new node joins at epoch

4. HCU mechanism only specifies minimum software version at specific block boundary (but not max).
   Only safe if all updates are 100% downwards compatible.

   Failure scenario:
    * Operator brings up node from recent historical state (pre-HCU)
    * Uses latest EN image (post HCU)
      => software is happy and produces possibly wrong results

#### Short-term goals
_Reduced_ downtime from protocol upgrades by
* (i) extending and refining the HCU mechanism to allow upgrades to all node roles (remove limitation 1)
    * focus on algorithmic upgrades
    * first step enable upgrades that do _not_ require a database migration (no changes to persisted data structures)
* (ii) supporting rolling upgrades that do not require nodes to reboot in a time-coordinated manner (remove limitation 2)
* (iii) significantly increasing robustness of upgrade process and remove protocol-version ambiguity for later data processing (remove limitation 3)

#### Discussion Notes about 2. (HCU-style upgrades for all node roles)
* keeping different protocol versions for each subsection of the protocol, such as
   * Consensus
   * Execution & Cadence
   * Access Nodes
   * etc
* For execution Nodes
   * discuss notion of patch version:
     Despite different patch versions, the protocol specification is still the same.  Therefore, we might not want to include the path in the protocol state, because nodes are allowed to run different


### 3. Tuning Flow's Main Consensus
* [technical exploration](https://www.notion.so/flowfoundation/Cruise-Control-headroom-for-speedups-46dc17e07ae14462b03341e4432a907d?pvs=4) (according to available time)



## Key Outcomes

### 1. Path to Zero-downtime protocol upgrades

 
Working out the details of software upgrades (topic 2.) without was delegated to focused sub-working-group. People interested in contributing:
*  Vishal Changrani
*  Yurii Oleksyshyn
*  Janez Podhostnik
*  Peter Argue

#### Addendum: Core Protocol Sub-Working-Group met on April 5, 2024:
- Meeting Video: [Core Protocol Sub-Working Group: HCU-Style Upgrades for Nodes & Execution Nodes](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fpQPiiM-K4_hEORZIV9fIdOqEW17Q4O5/view?usp=drive_link)
- Meeting Transcript: [2024-05-04_sub_working-group_transcript.md](./2024-05-04_sub_working-group_transcript.md)
- Meeting Notes: [[Brainstorming] HCU-style upgrades for all node roles](https://www.notion.so/flowfoundation/Brainstorming-HCU-style-upgrades-for-all-node-roles-b6b0ab084075432782cd0407b73479c7?pvs=4) (notion)

Key Results (TLDR):
* sub-working-group assessed the primitives that the Dynamic Protocol State will provide and found them to be very powerful and very broadly useful  
* sub-working-group emphasizes that Dynamic Protocol State does not make the protocol arbitrarily upgradable 
  > The mechanism under discussion is limited to coordinating **when** the upgrade will happen, not the nature of that upgrade. For example, the new software release could understand two protocol versions and be able to switch between them on the fly, **or** the new version could require that the old software shuts down, triggers a data upgrade process, and then a new software release is launched on the new data. But in either case, this mechanism will ensure that there is an unambiguous “time” (i.e. view) when the new protocol version is active and the old protocol version is obsolete.
  
  >The dynamic Protocol state helps us to inform all nodes when, and trigger restarts if required.


### 2. Consensus Speedup

Deciding on parameter set for speeding up consensus  (topic 3.) was delegated to focused sub-working-group. People interested in contributing:
* Tarak Ben Youssef
* Janez Podhostnik
* Peter Argue
* Khalil Claybon
* Jordan Schalm 
* Dieter Shirley

#### Addendum: Core Protocol Sub-Working-Group met on April 4, 2024:
- Meeting Video: [Core Protocol Sub-Working Group: Consensus Speedup](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kQBsju8iSn7k0hfsbxvJtkGu0eQP6sF6/view?usp=drive_link)
- Finalized parameter set: see section [Decisions](https://www.notion.so/flowfoundation/Cruise-Control-headroom-for-speedups-46dc17e07ae14462b03341e4432a907d?pvs=4#67bc31aef34d4be6979a439b74a301c8) in notion doc [Cruise-Control headroom for speedups](https://www.notion.so/flowfoundation/Cruise-Control-headroom-for-speedups-46dc17e07ae14462b03341e4432a907d?pvs=4#67bc31aef34d4be6979a439b74a301c8)




### Links and further reading
- Meeting Transcript: [2024-03-28_transcript.md](./2024-03-28_transcript.md)
- Meeting Video: [2024-03-28_core_protocol_wg_video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZTzhLKs9Ey101FcTxCXrubY5KNZ2CtHb/view?usp=sharing)



