# Meeting 04 - Core Protocol Working Group

**Date**: June 27, 2024 (Thursday), 10-11am PT (17-18:00 UTC)

## Agenda
1. Tagging code changes that need an HCU
2. ???

:pencil: :point_right: Anyone can **add agenda topics** by creating a pull request on this file and extending the list above.


**Attendees:**

tbd

## Meeting Content

### 1. Tagging code changes that need an HCU

**Context:** During our [Retro on execution fork](https://www.notion.so/flowfoundation/Retro-on-execution-fork-01504b970441477ebfc0174d14dcb269?pvs=4)
we identified that a breaking change on the deployment branch `v0.33` was the root cause for the execution fork. 




### 2. xyz

## Key Outcomes

### 1. abc
### 2. xyz


### Links and further reading
- Meeting Transcript: [2024-06-27_transcript.md](./2024-04-25_transcript.md)
- Video Recoding: [Flow Core Protocol Working Group 2024-06-27](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ziNUBz3iNrYG1wun-Mt2kiEWYbsS9IDE/view)
