# Meeting 10 - Core Protocol Working Group

**Date**: February 27, 2025 (Thursday), 10-11am PT (17-18:00 UTC)

## Agenda
1. Nomenclature for Flow Upgrades
2. Optimistic Data Retrieval for Access Nodes
3. 

:pencil: :point_right: Anyone can **add agenda topics** by creating a pull request on this file and extending the list above.

**Attendees:** 

## Meeting Content

### 1. Nomenclature for Flow Upgrades

#### Background

Currently, there are two mechanisms to roll out downward incompatible changes to node software: network upgrade (spork) and Height Coordinated Upgrade (HCU).
Network upgrade causes a network downtime while HCU does not cause any network downtime (see [here](https://developers.flow.com/networks/node-ops/node-operation/hcu#hcu-versus-spork) for more details).
However, HCUs can currently only be used for Verification and Execution Nodes and not for the other node types - Collection and Consensus.

A new mechanism to upgrade all node types without causing any downtime has been implemented.
Earlier core protocol working group discussion about it can be found [here](https://github.com/onflow/Flow-Working-Groups/tree/main/core_protocol_working_group#path-to-zero-downtime-protocol-upgrades) and the associated [FLIP 298](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/296).

_The new mechanism will allow a view-based upgrade for all node types. The current method of HCU will be deprecated in favor of this new method._

#### Proposed Naming Convention for Classifying Upgrades

With the introduction of this new mechanism, we now have broadly four categories to upgrade nodes on Flow as listed below.
There are three important stakeholders who should be informed about these upgrades: the flow foundation team, node operators and the community at large.

Hence, _a consistent and effective naming convention for these four type of upgrade is needed_. 

**

1. **Optional Upgrade**
  - can be deployed in rolling fashion (nodes can be upgraded at different times)
  - only for changes that are _completely upwards_ and _downwards compatible_
  - node operators can opt for not deploying that change (discouraged)
  - Announcements and Coordination (by Flow Foundation):
    - message in Flow-Foundation-internal Slack channel `#flow-ops` 
    - for Node Operators: post message "Please upgrade to version x.x.x" on Discord channel [`flow-validators-announcements`](https://discord.com/channels/613813861610684416/709812863287427103)
      and [`Node Operations` topic](https://forum.flow.com/c/node-operations/36) on Forums
    - for Community: no messaging necessary

2. **Rolling Software Upgrade**
    - can be deployed in rolling manner
    - mandatory update: within a larger time window (days or weeks), all affected nodes have to be updated or they will automatically cease to participate (enter crash loop, until updated by the operator)
    - suitable for upgrading the Execution Stack if the different behaviour can be enabled by a feature flag
    - suitable for upgrading protocol
    - Announcements and Coordination (by Flow Foundation):
        - message in Flow-Foundation-internal Slack channel `#flow-ops`
        - for Node Operators: post message "[Action required] Please upgrade to version x.x.x by zz Date" on Discord channel [`flow-validators-announcements`](https://discord.com/channels/613813861610684416/709812863287427103)
          and [`Node Operations` topic](https://forum.flow.com/c/node-operations/36) on Forums
        - for Community: no messaging necessary

3. **_Time_ Coordinated Upgrade [TCU]** (previously called Height-Coordinated-Upgrade, aka HCU)
    - mandatory update: all affected nodes will need to be upgraded at the same block height
    - only practical for Execution Nodes [ENs] due to their small number, because EN node operators have to join a call
    - Announcements and Coordination (by Flow Foundation):
      - coordinate call for TCU with EN operators
      - message in Flow-Foundation-internal Slack channel `#flow-ops`
      - for Node Operators: post message "[Action required on zz Date] Please upgrade to version x.x.x at yy:yy UTC on zz Date" on Discord channel [`flow-validators-announcements`](https://discord.com/channels/613813861610684416/709812863287427103)
        and [`Node Operations` topic](https://forum.flow.com/c/node-operations/36) on Forums
      - for Community: post message "TCU - transaction execution will pause for 5 minutes till the ENs restart"

4. **Major Network Upgrade** (aka spork) 
    - mandatory update for _all_ nodes in the network 
    - mostly all node operators have to join a call 
    - Announcements and Coordination (by Flow Foundation):
        - coordinate Spork meeting with all node operators
        - message in Flow-Foundation-internal Slack channel `#flow-ops`
        - for Node Operators: post message "[Action required on zz Date] Please upgrade at yy:yy UTC on zz Date to version that will be shared that day" on Discord channel [`flow-validators-announcements`](https://discord.com/channels/613813861610684416/709812863287427103)
          and [`Node Operations` topic](https://forum.flow.com/c/node-operations/36) on Forums
        - for Community: post message "network will be down for 30 mins"

#### Discussion

* The key difference between 1 and 2 is:
   * For 2, we want to set a hard deadline, by which nodes that haven't upgraded will stop participating
   * For upgrades type 1, we generally want to encourage node operators to upgrade. Hence, we shouldn't be highlighting the fact that the update
     is non-mandatory in the headline. The message we want to convey: node operators should be updating and installing this upgrade as part of their regular maintenance cycles; 
     but they don't have to drop other work that urgent for them, or work outside of normal business hours. 

  The more relevant aspect is that the update can be deployed as a rolling upgrade. For some of those rolling upgrade, they might be a deadline which depending on the criticality of the update (typically a few days to few weeks)
* HCU is well-established and people know what to expect
  * for node operators and network clients, it is not very relevant whether the coordination mechanism is based on block height or view. We note that some of the early hotstuff papers also substitute the term 'height' for consensus view.
    For technical accuracy, the term $\texttt{block height}$ and $\texttt{view height}$ are recommended. Nevertheless, outside of technical documents the simplified nomenclature of just talking about $\texttt{height}$ is fine. 

### 2. Optimistic Data Retrieval for Access Nodes

:point_right: notion doc [Optimistic Syncing](https://flowfoundation.notion.site/WIP-Optimistic-Syncing-1891aee1232480c78939f18831537081?pvs=4)

## Key Outcomes

### 1. Categories of Flow Upgrades

It was decided to use the following naming convention for upgrades:

1. **Optional upgrades**
   
2. **Rolling upgrade with or without a deadline**
   - Node software changes that are backward compatible can be rolled out using rolling upgrades.
   - Rolling upgrade with deadline
     - If there are Component Version changes (for example from CV1 to CV2), then a rolling upgrade can be used where all nodes can be upgraded to the new software version.
     - The new software version will support both CV1 and CV2 but will not switch to CV2 until an on-chain Activation View is scheduled (a view is a round of block voting).
     - The Activation View will be set on-chain by the governance committee and is the deadline by which node operators must upgrade.
   - Rolling update without deadline
     - Rolling software upgrade also refer to mandatory upgrades which fix major node software issues. In this case the deadline is not based on a view height but node operators are asked to upgrades ASAP.
     
3. **Height Coordinated Upgrade**
   - Here height refers to the view height.

4. **Network upgrade (Spork)**
  - No change. 
     
### 2. Optimistic Data Retrieval for Access Nodes

### Links and further reading
- Meeting Transcript: [Flow Core Protocol Working Group Transcript.txt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1826lnvH4y4EuvCdLCx5wFBq4JxYrpYpY/view?usp=sharing)
- Video Recoding: [Flow Core Protocol Working Group Recording.mp4](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pGOpj4QckdrMkAvoOx2Nvq5BotbDm2R-/view?usp=sharing)
