# Meeting 11 - Core Protocol Working Group

**Date**: March 27, 2025 (Thursday), 10-11am PT (17-18:00 UTC)

## Agenda
1. Optimistic Data Retrieval for Access Nodes
2. Discuss [FLIP 264: WebAuthn Credential Support](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/320) for supporting Passkeys on Flow.
   
:pencil: :point_right: Anyone can **add agenda topics** by creating a pull request on this file and extending the list above.

**Attendees:** 

## Meeting Content

### 1. Nomenclature for Flow Upgrades


## Key Outcomes


### Links and further reading
- Meeting Transcript: [Flow Core Protocol Working Group Transcript.txt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1826lnvH4y4EuvCdLCx5wFBq4JxYrpYpY/view?usp=sharing)
- Video Recoding: [Flow Core Protocol Working Group Recording.mp4](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pGOpj4QckdrMkAvoOx2Nvq5BotbDm2R-/view?usp=sharing)
