# Meeting 2

## Date: Mar 12th, 2024, 11-12 PM PST

## Recap since last meeting

1. Make Emerald Academy Cadence 1.0 course more detailed as it's the core educational reference in the ecosystem.
   - Have Jacob Tucker speak on this
   - More detailed examples around entitlements
2. Update migration guide to specify specific steps for upgrading and resources.
   - updated as PR ready to be merged on cadence-lang.org
3. Community needs to be reassured exactly when there are no more breaking stages and when its safe to start learning Cadence 1.0 which is like a brand new language.
   - Outreach strategy.
5. A strategy needs to be in place to deal with the massive digital trail/courses/docs that relate to pre-cadence 1.0
   - Not highest priority, but will carry over. Will to post-crescendo launch.
   - ECDAO put date on when material was last updated/signifier to show that it's older material, might be useful to show that the language has been around for a while.


## Questions
- 2 RPC endpoints right now, one for interacting with EVM the other with Cadence 1.0? The new network is Previewnet which includes both Cadence 1.0 and EVM on Flow, the RPC endpoint is how one configures Metamask wallet/local development.


## Priorities
- get existing contracts are upgraded

## Todays Agenda

- Cadence 1.0 Migration Status
- Contract migration Tools
  - https://developers.flow.com/tools/flow-cli/migrate/migrate-stage-contract
  - cadence-lang guides for both local migration and staging (https://cadence-lang-org-git-ianthpun-migration-guides-onflow.vercel.app/)

## Attendees

## Key Decisions, Goals & Outcomes
- Flow Ref working on Crescendo.
- Look through EVM and Migration docs.
Outreach
- Video that Chase made on solidity contract. Determine why it’s unlisted.
- Previewnet on Flowdiver. 
- Video on staging contracts and docs, end-to-end migration. 
- Contract Browser should have Previewnet, adding a badge on contract browser to make sure that the contract has been staged - talk to Andrea. 
- Add asks closer to next meeting for working groups mailing list.



## Links
