
# Meeting 8

## Date: June 6th, 2024, Thursday, 8-9 AM PST

## How to add an agenda topic?
Any attendee can add an agenda topic by creating a pull request on this file and adding more topics in the agenda below.

## Agenda Cadence Data Availability for Builders Pt 2

* OKRs for this cycle.
* Recap of last meeting
* Discussion on data availability
  * Token prices, current and historical
  * Snapshot of token holders at specific block height
  * Dev tooling feature sets
  * Flipside features on potential dev use cases
* Existing Tools (Flowdiver, Flipside, Access Nodes)
* Cross VM bridge
* Community New Tools Updates
* Missing Tooling and Solutions
* Tool Improvement Suggestions

  
## Attendees 
Ali, Alex, Tom, Jack Forgash, BoHao Tang, Deniz, Chase, Akos Erdos

## Key Decisions, Goals & Outcomes 

### Requests

### Upcoming

### Feedback

## Links


## Notes
