# Meeting 4

## Date: Apr 11th, 2024, Thursday, 8-9 AM PST

## How to add an agenda topic?
Any attendee can add an agenda topic by creating a pull request on this file and adding more topics in the agenda below.

## Agenda
* OKRs for this cycle.
* Flow EVM - Cadence integration
* Cadence 1.0 Migration Status
* Open Discussion
* Community Tools Status
* Tool Improvement Suggestions
  
## Attendees 
Diego, Akos, Deniz, Gio, Chase, Jordan, Tom

## Key Decisions, Goals & Outcomes 
### Requests
Add ink to migration guide link in the Cadence upgrade banner 

### Upcoming


### Feedback


## Links
 - [Fork testnet or mainnet for local development](https://github.com/onflow/flow-emulator?tab=readme-ov-file#emulating-mainnet-and-testnet-transactions)

 - [Cadence Migration Guide](https://cadence-lang.org/docs/cadence-migration-guide)

 - [Ethernal](https://tryethernal.com/)

 - [Open Zeppelin](https://wizard.openzeppelin.com/)

## Notes
AI meeting bot unexpectedly got removed. Here are manual notes.

EVM - cadence integration
Gio gave a status update on the bridge effort. He is expecting to have a beta out this week for fungible token bridging, currently refining and testing for security issues.

Until flowdiver.io gets up to speed here is a block explorer to see evm transactions, https://tryethernal.com/

Discussion about randomness on evm. A few thoughts how this could be built out, Cadence contract could inject randomness into a evm contract. This would give a VRF style capability on the evm side. 

Discussion about Cadence - EVM integration 
Why replicate behavior on the cadence side when smart contracts have already been developed on solidity and can easily be deployed on the evm side.
Deniz’s prediction, the main ledger will migrate to the evm side. Basic ERC-20 should be on the evm side and only migrate to the cadence side to leverage Cadence functionality. Example would be to do bulk actions, manage marketplace listings or do atomic transactions. This way items don’t need individual approval.

Questions:
How will developers verify evm bridge contracts from cadence side? Example in flow diver
What happens to bridged evm contracts when cadence side contracts get upgraded?
What is held constant on the evm side in reference to a cadence originated smart contract?


Deniz’s opinion/idea
There needs to be a solution similar to flix that allows developers to do bulk operations on the cadence that affect evm side. There needs to be tooling to help devs do these operations.
