# August 30, 2022

* We discussed the currently open FLIPs

* **Remove public resource fields:**
    * https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/739
    * Status:
        - No consensus
    * Open problems:
        - None
    * Next steps:
        - Ask author (Dete)

* **Capability Controllers:**
    * https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/798
    * Status:
        * More API discussions (delegation, revocation)
        * Exploring how to make APIs/use-casess simpler to use/understand
        * Sentiment: proposal OK, but also want to cover more use-cases
        * Maybe split proposal? At least gather use-cases, maybe propose functionality in separate FLIP(s)
    * Next steps:
        * Meeting
        * Finish use-case gathering
    * Open problems:
        * Should capabilities be resources? Agreement they should be values
        * Relation to extensibility proposal → some use-cases could be covered by extensibility ([FLIP 1101](https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/1101))
        * It would be great to have account identity (-> [FLIP 945](https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/945)), do not have to be storable, only needs to prove
            * Cons: tied to identity, not transferable between accounts owned by same person
            * Alternative (?): wrapping/unwrapping (pattern instead of new language feature)
            * Alternative (?): sharing using account

* **Add identity to AuthAccount:**
    * https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/945
    * Status:
        * Maybe not needed if capability controllers proposal gets added (?)
        * Missing use-case / documentation
        * Many cons, alternatives exist → need to be added to FLIP
    * Next steps:
        * Add cons to proposal
        * Extend article with why identity resource is not a good alternative
        * Promote safe patterns for identity/access control
    * Open problems:
        * "Too easy" to use instead of capabilities introduces a footgun.
But: just another tool for access control, useful for certain use-cases, still recommend capabilities
        * Possible to pass on identity, potentially a malicious program pretends it has access
        * But also *not* providing identity will cause developers to create their own potential unsafe. Cannot prevent it
        * Alternative: instead of passing identity around, code  wraps value for target, target has secret unwrapper

* **Purity/mutability analysis:**
    * https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/1056
    * Status:
        * Simplified original proposal
        * Consensus
    * Next steps:
        * Merge PRs into feature branch, let people try it out
        * Make decision on FLIP
    * Notes:
        * `pure` was changed to `view`, like in Solidity
    * Open problems:
        * None

* **Extensibility:**
    * https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/1101
    * Status:
        * Many open problems
        * Unclear definition of problem
    * Next steps:
        * Meeting
        * Clearly defining use-case / features
    * Open problems:
        * Current proposal has many open questions / edge cases
        * Unclear what features should be provided by proposal

* **Add fields during contract update:**
    * https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/1097
    * Status:
        * Good start
        * Need to answer outstanding questions
        * Overall agreement, probably gets approved/implemented once details figured out
    * Next steps:
        * Meeting
    * Open problems:
        * Migration
        * Field removal
        * Syntax

* **Invalidate references to transferred resources:**
    * https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/1043
    * Status:
        * Paused discussion on this, hoped to have [FLIP 1056](https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/1056) solve this
        * Need to increase priority
    * Open problems:
        * ?
