# June 15th, 2023

## FLIPs

### Capability Controllers

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/798](https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/798)

* Status:
    * FLIP approved and merged ðŸŽ‰
    * Implemented
    * Deployed on TN
    * Need documentation

### Entitlements and Safe Downcasting

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/54](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/54)

* Status:
    * FLIP approved and merged ðŸŽ‰
    * Implementation almost complete (reference conversion)
    * Plan for migration: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/95](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/95)

* Open problems/concerns:
    * Migration
        * Need to migrate values (run-time types) and need to e.g. re-hash in dictionary

* Next steps:
    * Merge last PR(s)
    * Preview release for Stable Cadence: Emulator, Playground, etc.

### Attachments

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/11](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/11)

* Forum discussion: [https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-cadence-extensions-attachments/3645/2](https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-cadence-extensions-attachments/3645/2)

* Status:
    * FLIP approved and merged ðŸŽ‰
    * Deployed to Testnet
    * Receiving feedback
    * Discovering use-cases
    * Need mitigation for forced resource deletion
    * Mainnet blocked on solution for forced resource deletion solution
    * Had breakout session for resource deletion solution
    * Have idea for solution, but might depend on breaking change (Stable Cadence)

* Open problem:
    * Resource deletion, blocking. Working on solution
    * Maybe deploy to MN without solution?

* Next steps:
    * Resource deletion solution

### Interface Inheritance

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/40](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/40)

* Forum discussion: [https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-interface-inheritance-in-cadence/3750](https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-interface-inheritance-in-cadence/3750)

* Status:
    * FLIP approved and merged ðŸŽ‰
    * Implemented

### Interface Conformance Improvements

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/83](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/83)

* Overview:
    * For interface conformance
    * Allow two interfaces, conditions + default function (currently prohibited)

* Status:
    * Positive sentiment

* Open questions:
    * None

* Next steps:

    * **Approve, unless opposition**

### Remove pub, pub(set) and priv

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/84](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/84)

* Overview:
    * Remove access modifiers
    * Replacements already exist (access(all), access(self))

* Status:
    * Positive sentiment
    * Implementation drafted

* Open questions:
    * None

* Next steps:
    * **Approve, unless opposition**

### Emit events from function conditions, allow concrete events in interfaces

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/111](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/111)

* Overview:
    * Originally proposed by Deniz
    * Emit events from conditions
    * Allow concrete events in interfaces, avoids need for redeclaration
    * Depends on nested type requirements getting removed

* Status:
    * Positive sentiment

* Open questions:
    * None

* Next steps:
    * Discuss a bit more
    * Approve, unless opposition

### Remove restricted types

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/85](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/85)

* Overview:
    * Remove restricted types
    * Used for access control (restricted references)
    * Redundant with addition of entitlements
    * Interface sets (intersection types)

* Status:
    * Positive sentiment

* Open questions:
    * None

* Next steps:
    * **Approve, unless opposition**

### Account Type

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/92](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/92)

* Overview:
    * Replace AuthAccount and PublicAccount
    * Originated in account linking FLIP
    * Use entitlements

* Status:
    * Positive sentiment

* Open problems:
    * None
    * Migration (effects on existing API, forced breakage)
    * (Naming)

* Next steps:
    * Finish design for migration
    * **Approve, unless opposition**

### External Mutability

* Vision: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/97](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/97)
    * Not a FLIP, but supporting document
    * Bigger picture for FLIPs
    * Update on previous proposals
    * Looking at problem again: use entitlements

* FLIPs:

    * **Change member access semantic**
        * FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/89](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/89)

        * Overview:
            * Accessing a field on a reference returns a reference

        * Status:
            * Positive sentiment

        * Open questions:
            * None

        * Next steps:
            * **Approve, unless opposition**

    * **Introduce built-in mutability entitlements**

        * FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/86](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/86)

        * Overview:
            * Built-in entitlements for mutating functions of containers (arrays, dictionaries)
            * Can also used by user-defined types

        * Status:
            * Positive sentiment

        * Open questions:
            * Naming

        * Next steps:
            * Maybe approve and refactor names later if needed (before release)
            * **Approve, unless opposition**

    * **Improve entitlement mappings**

        * FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/94](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/94)

        * Overview:
            * Allow entitlement mappings for non-reference fields
            * Improves "Change member access semantics" (FLIP 89)

        * Status:
            * Positive sentiment

        * Open questions:
            * None

        * Next steps:
            * **Approve, unless opposition**

### Add Range type

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/96](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/96)

* Status:
    * Design almost complete
    * Implementation in progress
    * Looking for feedback
    * Positive sentiment, but details unclear

* Open questions:
    * Multiple types?

* Next steps:
    * Complete
    * **Approve, unless opposition**

### Extend transaction format

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/41](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/41)

* Status:
    * No updates at the moment
    * Last breakout session was a while back
    * Planning to restart working group

* Open problems:

    * Unexplored corner:
        * Useful for multi-sign use-cases
        * Does model also make sense for single-sign use-cases?

    * Signer assignment
        * Mapping signatures to roles
        * Currently Flow transaction signatures are sequential

    * Action-based model?

* Next steps:
    * Have another breakout session
    * Contact Jeff

## Questions/Feedback

* Indicate feature support in CLI

* Applications to demo changes and additions

    * Candidates:
        * Standards (FT, NFT)
        * Core contracts
        * Kitty Items (e.g. for marketplace)
        * NFT Pawn Shop
        * Asset Handover
