
# Apr 13, 2023

* First fully open/public meeting ðŸŽ‰

* Code coverage feature shipping in CLI ðŸŽ‰

    * Huge shoutout to Ardit Marku from Build Squad

* New contributor: darkdrag00nv2 ðŸŽ‰

* Contribute:
    * FLIPs

    * Cadence: [https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22Good+First+Issue%22](https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22Good+First+Issue%22)

    * Cadence tools: [https://github.com/onflow/cadence-tools/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22Good+First+Issue%22](https://github.com/onflow/cadence-tools/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22Good+First+Issue%22)

## FLIPs

### AuthAccount capabilities

* [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/53](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/53)
* Status
    * Approved and implemented ðŸŽ‰

### Capability Controllers

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/798](https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/798)

* Status:

    * Had many breakout sessions

    * Final API discussions

    * Implementation in progress

    * No remaining concerns

* Open problems:

    * API: Capability publishing

* Next steps:

    * One more breakout session

    * **Vote!**

### Entitlements and Safe Downcasting

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/54](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/54)

* Status:

    * Had breakout session for nested entitlements. Consensus on solution

    * Implementation in progress

    * No remaining concerns

* Open problems:

    * Attachments

* Next steps:

    * Address remaining technical issues async

    * **Vote!**

### Attachments

* Attachments FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/11](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/11)

* Forum discussion: [https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-cadence-extensions-attachments/3645/2](https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-cadence-extensions-attachments/3645/2)

* Status:

    * Approved and merged ðŸŽ‰

    * Deployed to Testnet

    * Receiving feedback

    * Discovering use-cases

    * Need mitigation for trolling attack

    * Mainnet blocked on solution for trolling attack

    * Had breakout session for trolling attack

    * Have idea for solution, but might depend on breaking change (Stable Cadence)

* Open problem:

    * Trolling attack

* Next steps:

    * Address trolling attack

    * Need breakout session

### Interface Inheritance

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/40](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/40)

* Forum discussion: [https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-interface-inheritance-in-cadence/3750](https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-interface-inheritance-in-cadence/3750)

* Status:

    * Was on hold due to prioritization, planning to continue now, given other FLIPs done

    * Had breakout session

    * Implementation available

* Open questions:

    * Multiple interface default functions (diamond problem)

    * Meeting notes: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LUvRg0T09mdE2Ndgti6xI1AY_KPYGJr2ZRLVuqzGxFg/edit#heading=h.d4wc1pr484vi](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LUvRg0T09mdE2Ndgti6xI1AY_KPYGJr2ZRLVuqzGxFg/edit#heading=h.d4wc1pr484vi)

* Next steps:

    * Schedule another breakout session

    * Is this still a blocker for NFT/FT v2?

        * Still being used, expected to be available

        * Not 100% required, but preferred. Less prone to errors

### Extend transaction format

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/41](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/41)

* Status:

    * No updates at the moment

    * Last breakout session was a while back

    * Planning to restart working group

* Open problems:

    * Unexplored corner:

        * Useful for multi-sign use-cases

        * Does model also make sense for single-sign use-cases?

    * Signer assignment

        * Mapping signatures to roles

        * Currently Flow transaction signatures are sequential

    * Action-based model?

* Next steps:

    * Have another breakout session

### External Mutability

* [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/58](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/58)

* [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/59](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/59)

* Status

    * Had breakout session

    * Multiple alternatives / FLIPs

    * FLIP 58:

        * Add additional static checks

        * Deemed overkill

    * FLIP 59:

        * Remove/restrict let fields

        * Deemed better than 58

        * Impact analysis:

            * Inner mutability used as a feature

            * E.g. MetadataViews standard

            * Need delegation functions for nested members

            * More boilerplate

            * Moves problem, but does not solve it

    * Investigating another idea (entitlements, references to fields)

* Open problems:

    * Usability

        * FLIPs have different compromises

* Next steps:

    * Breakout session to determine how to proceed

## Related FLIPs

### Account linking standard

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/72](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/72)

* Status:

    * Had breakout session

    * Great feedback

    * Implementation in progress:

        * [https://github.com/Flowtyio/restricted-child-account](https://github.com/Flowtyio/restricted-child-account)

    * Positive sentiment, thumbs up from e.g. Flowty, Niftory, Dapper, etc

    * Wallets like it, even though it is more work for them

* Open problem:

    * Regulatory risk for application developers

        * Discussions with legal council, technical solution

    * Discovery of linked assets

* Next steps:

    * Work out how to restrict access

    * Continue implementation

### FT/NFT v2 standards

* FLIP: [https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/56](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/56)

* Status:

    * Multiple breakout sessions

    * Several major changes:

        * [https://github.com/onflow/flow-nft/pull/126#issuecomment-1505864702](https://github.com/onflow/flow-nft/pull/126#issuecomment-1505864702)

* Open problems:

    * Waiting on FLIP for emitting events from interfaces (would allow nested type requirements)

        * [https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/2069](https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/2069)

        * Need to open FLIP for removal of nested type requirements

    * Upgrade constraints

* Next steps:

    * Breakout session for upgrade

        * Maybe needs storage migration

    * Open FLIP for removal of nested type requirements

## Questions

* Changelog for Stable Cadence?

    * Announcement of breaking changes Stable Cadence in forum

    * [https://forum.onflow.org/t/another-update-on-stable-cadence/3715](https://forum.onflow.org/t/another-update-on-stable-cadence/3715)

    * Preview release available, needs to be updated

    * Will create TN instance with changes
