
# Feb 23, 2023

## FLIPs

### Capability Controllers
[https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/798](https://github.com/onflow/flow/pull/798)

* Status:
    * Had many breakout sessions
    * Final API discussions
    * TODO:
        * Compatibility with AuthAccount capabilities
        * Backwards compatibility / migration of existing data
        * Emit events
        * Pet names

* Open problems:
    * Backwards compatibility / migration of existing data

* Next steps:
    * Update proposal
    * One more breakout session
    * Vote!

### Entitlements and Safe Downcasting
[https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/54](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/54)

* Status:
    * Zeroing in on entitlements concept
    * Getting close to final design
    * Related: [account entitlements](https://forum.onflow.org/t/super-user-account/4088)

* Open problems:
    * How do nested composite fields work?
    * Declaration syntax (resource-typed members)

* Next steps:
    * Breakout session for nested composite fields
    * Asynchronous discussion for declaration syntax
    * Vote!

### Attachments

[https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/11](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/11)

[https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-cadence-extensions-attachments/3645/2](https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-cadence-extensions-attachments/3645/2)

* Status:
    * Approved and implemented
    * Preview release available to try out the new feature
    * Second preview release

* Open problems:
    * Trolling attack
        * Problem:
            * Attachments introduce the problem of receiving arbitrary values
            * What if attachment aborts in destructor?
            * Multiple kinds of aborts: panic, infinite loops, etc.
            * Owner cannot remove attachment
            * Owner cannot destroy outer resource
        * Solution ideas:
            * Allow force delete?
                * How?
                * What if code assumes destructor succeeded? e.g. FT total supply
            * Return to creator?
                * What if data cannot be paid for?
            * Return to "network lost and found"?
            * Preventing destroy
                * technically nearly impossible atm
            * Limit destroy?
                * Some destructors mutate, e.g. FT updates contract total supply
                * Only allow "self-calls"?
            * "Two-staged destructors"?
                * In other languages?

* Next steps:
    * Address trolling attack?
        * Breakout session
    * Deploy to TN, not MN
        * Not feature flagged, would need two separate flow-go builds

### Interface Inheritance

[https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/40](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/40)

[https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-interface-inheritance-in-cadence/3750](https://forum.onflow.org/t/flip-interface-inheritance-in-cadence/3750)

* Status:
    * No further progress
    * Currently at bottom of priorities

* Open questions:
    * Meeting notes: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LUvRg0T09mdE2Ndgti6xI1AY_KPYGJr2ZRLVuqzGxFg/edit#heading=h.d4wc1pr484vi](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LUvRg0T09mdE2Ndgti6xI1AY_KPYGJr2ZRLVuqzGxFg/edit#heading=h.d4wc1pr484vi)

* Next steps:
    * Schedule another session
    * Is this still a blocker for NFT/FT v2?

### Extend transaction format
[https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/41](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/41)

* Status:
    * Had many breakout sessions
    * Zeroing role based syntax
    * Roles have both prepare and resolve

* Open problems:
    * Unexplored corner:
        * Useful for multi-sign use-cases
        * Does model also make sense for single-sign use-cases?
    * Signer assignment
        * Mapping signatures to roles
        * Currently Flow transaction signatures are sequential
    * Action-based model?

* Next steps:
    * Another breakout session to continue conversation
    * Update Extended Transaction Format FLIP with meeting notes from last breakout session
    * Add information about new prepare/resolve mechanic proposed

### AuthAccount capabilities

[https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/53](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/53)

* Status
    * Had break-out session
    * Preview release
    * Enabled on all networks but Mainnet
    * Working on [account entitlements](https://forum.onflow.org/t/super-user-account/4088)
    * Want to approve and

* Open problems:
    * Forbid Public?
        * Could restrict for linkAccount
        * What about CapCon issueAccount? introduce AccountCapability to allow distinguishing?
    * How can we get it out to Mainnet?
        * Add temporary mechanism, e.g. another type, like proposed originally in [https://forum.onflow.org/t/super-user-account/4088](https://forum.onflow.org/t/super-user-account/4088) ?
        * Need to prevent accidental signing

* Next steps:
    * Brainstorm temporary solution
    * Another breakout session
        * Involve wallet folks (e.g. Dapper, Blocto, etc.)

### External Mutability
[https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/58](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/58)

[https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/59](https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/59)

* Status:
    * Had breakout session
    * Multiple alternatives / FLIPs
    * FLIP 58:
        * Add additional static checks
        * Deemed overkill
    * FLIP 59:
        * Remove/restrict let fields
        * Deemed better than 58
        * Impact analysis:
            * Inner mutability used as a feature
            * E.g. MetadataViews standard
            * Need delegation functions for nested members
            * More boilerplate
            * Moves problem, but does not solve it

* Open problems:
    * Unclear how to proceed

* Next steps:
    * Breakout session to determine how to proceed
