# Meeting 2

## Date: Apr 12th, 2024, Fri, 9-10 AM PDT

## How to add an agenda topic?

Any attendee can add an agenda topic by creating a pull request on this file and adding more topics in the agenda below.

## Agenda

### Update on Cadence 1.0

See office hours document: https://www.notion.so/dapperlabs/Cadence-1-0-Office-Hours-680c7c63921940248380e2ffcf74b804?pvs=4#faec6830df294831b51e1c80ac55d5e5


### FLIP: Improve Public Capability Acquisition

https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/242

#### Overview
- `account.capabilities.get` returns an optional in Cadence 1.0
- Problem for some use-cases
- Additional `nil` checking code needed, in addition to borrow checking code. Annoying
- Even an capability that cannot be borrowed is useful, because the address is still provided

#### Discussion

- TODO:
  - Add note how address field is useful
  - Add engineering effort

- Breaking change for contracts already updated to Cadence 1.0?
  - Most `nil` handling code might still work, e.g. `nil` comparison, force-unwrap
  - Optional chaining and nil-coalescing won't work
  - Developers probably happy to get rid of `nil`-handling code that needed to be added so far
  - Mostly affects all transactions, also some contracts
  - Ledger manifest very likely impact

- Good for new developers who haven't started iodating yet

- Please vote!

### Remove support for non-public access modifiers in interfaces.

#### Overview

- Confusion about what it means to define a non-public (e.g. `access(contract)`) member in an interface, and how such members can be accessed from different places, e.g. in the contract defining it, in the contract implementing the interface, and what access modifiers may be used in the implementation and what they mean.
- Came up for function in new `Burner` contract and for `NFT`'s `ownedNFTs` field
- Current behaviour:
  - Access modifier of member in implementation must not be more restrictive than access modifier in interface
    - https://github.com/onflow/cadence/blob/27a49431a654438ec34b2692b9c357a8445e427b/runtime/sema/check_composite_declaration.go#L1585-L1588
    - That means an implementation may choose to use a more permissive access modifier
    - Developers however seem to want to define an access restriction in the interface
- Interfaces are meant to allow interoverability and hiding implementation details.
  Implementing against an interface instead of a concrete type decouples code and makes it "future-compatible".
- (Most) other languages do not support such behaviour (Java, Kotlin, Swift, Rust, etc.)

#### Proposal

- Remove support for non-public access modifier
- Re-adding well-defined behaviour in a future release would not be a breaking change, but removing it in future would be.
- Very late in Cadence 1.0 process, developers have already started to stage updates and do not expect further breaking changes
- Implementation effort is low
- Impact on contracts?

#### Discussion

- Forbid `access(contract)`, `access(contract)`, `access(self)`
- Allow entitled access (`access(E)`, `access(M)`)
- Footgun because it looks like it's requirement
- Open FLIP
   - Make it clear we need to move fast if we want to include this
   - Window is closing for Cadence 1.0 – if we want get it in now, unlikely to get in at all
- Small implementation effort on Cadence side
- Implementation in parallel
- Some implementation effort for contract authors to revert optional handling code changes
