# Meeting 1

## Date: Feb 27th, 2024, Tuesday, 9-10 AM PST

## How to add an agenda topic?
Any attendee can add an agenda topic by creating a pull request on this file and adding more topics in the agenda below.

## Agenda

Agenda:

1. Introduce the working group and it's purpose
  - The purpose of the working group is to have discussions on the future of Cadence Language and Execution in public, so that there is as little barrier for any developer to join in and contribute.
  - What is Cadence LAnguage and Execution ? We have been running Cadence Language Design Meetings (LDMs) for over 2 years and realized that often the discussions needs to include the "Execution team", which is building the Cadence execution runtime (including Flow virtual machine - FVM, storage layer - ledger, Atree and other components). It made sense to bring those two teams closer together in a single working group.
  - How can you engage with the working group ? For Cadence Language and it's execution environemnt topics, we have [dedicated Discord channel, cadence-builders](https://discord.com/channels/613813861610684416/1108479699732152503). You can use that channel to add topics on the agenda for this working group, or for any questions related to design and implementation of the Cadence programing lanuage and the execution runtime. Note that for questions about building with Cadence, please use [developer-questions channel](https://discord.com/channels/613813861610684416/621847426201944074).
  - Cadence Language and Execution working group will be meeting generally speaking monthly, but we will adjust the frequency and timing based on community demands and topics to be discussed.
2. Review OKRs for the next cycle (from end of Jan 2024 until launch of the Crescendo release)
  - Objective 1 - Upgrade Mainnet to Crescendo Release with minimal impact on developers, to lower the barrier for cross chain liquidity on Flow. This inlcudes Cadence 1.0, EVM on Flow, Atree Register Inlining.
    - Preview network
    - Emulator for contract upgrade testing
    - Testnet Migration Environment
    - ...
  - Objective 2 - Calibrate Transaction fees so that they accurately reflect resource usage during execution and deploy as part of Crescendo to avoid future disruption
  - Objective 3 - Analyze execution runtime trends and risks to plan next set of scalability OKRs
  -   Execution state growth (Storehouse)
  -   Transaction throughput
    - Objective 6 - Enable Concurrent Execution on one EN on Mainnet to validate correctness of the implementation (Detect execution forks)
  -   Proof size
    -   Objective 5 - Design a new Trie to improve performance of update operation, reduce memory usage and size of proofs and to support more flexible proof queries.
  - Objective 4 - Expand testing capability of storehouse so that we can validate execution correctness and benchmark performance on Mainnet data
  - Objective 7 - Improve execution performance to mitigate the impact of adding metadata to token standards
    - Cadence interpreter reuse - ETa 30% execution speedup
3. Cadence Language Roadmap (not on the OKR list)
  - Design & develop capabilities for backward-compatible language evolution and non-breaking language extensions.
  - Start work on Cadence language specification
4. Q&A

## Attendees


## Key Decisions, Goals & Outcomes

1.
2.

## Links
- ReadAI Summary
- Video Recording on Youtube
