# Meeting 6

## Date: Dec 10th, 2024, Tue 9-10AM PDT

## How to add an agenda topic?

Any attendee can add an agenda topic by creating a pull request on this file and adding more topics in the agenda below.

## Agenda

Agenda for this meeting will be:

- Current focus: Compilation of Cadence

- Discuss feedback on survey

## Survey Feedback

High interest:

- Work with large dictionaries and arrays
    - Improved several times before (e.g. reduced size to allow storing and requesting more data)
    - https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/3577
    - There is a natural limit: computation is always bounded
    - Can only further optimize and provide features to allow efficient access
        - e.g. https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/3544
        - Other ideas for API additions to work with large data?
    - Pain points:
        - Cost is not constant at the moment, hard to predict
            - Cannot be constant for security reasons
        - Appending data without reading it (only metadata of underlying tree is read)
        - BLOB? (Contagious byte array with constant cost)
    - Make it easier to “paginate” queries
        - Iterator (already researched, unlikely to be implementable at the moment)
- Simplified “storage slots” initialization / Account setup
    - Initialization of an account/storage for a dapp (checking if account is initialized and setting it up if needed)
    - Problem:
        - Giving access to account gives too many permissions
        - Contract/resource should be able to describe/perform setup
    - Language feature?
        - Give access to subset of account / finer grained access to account
        - Code pattern?
        - Library?
- Attenuation
    - Need: Limit capabilities/permissions/access (e.g. to account, collection, etc.)
    - Brainstorm ideas for solutions
        - Ad-hoc wrappers?
        - Security problems?
        - Stateful pre/post-conditions
    - Examples:
        - Withdraw N items
        - Time-based withdrawal
- Import and type aliases
    - Pros
        - Reduce code, improve readability
        - Avoid conflicts (same contract name in different accounts)
    - Cons
        - Potential for obfuscation (can already today e.g. import from wrong address)
        - High cost/benefit ratio (for aliases of arbitrary types)
    - Maybe only allow aliasing for imports, i.e. only for named types
        - Much easier to implement
    - https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/1171
- More detailed error messages
    - https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/294
    - https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/2050
    - Good cost/benefit ratio
    - https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/3711
- Nested optionals
    - Was already investigated for Cadence 1.0, e.g. https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/2818
    - Any change/improvement extremely difficult to implement given requirement of backward compatibility
    - Optional chaining?
    - ⇒ Gather more examples. Expectations
    - ⇒ Deniz
    - ⇒ Better tooling, documentation, etc.
        - Confusion: Nullable
        - Link to other languages

Less important:

- Type Inference Enhancements
    - Pros:
        - Code reduction
    - Cons:
        - Implicitness
    - “Reduce explicit type annotations”
    - Where specifically?
        - Return type inference: `let x: &String? = account.storage.borrow(/public/foo)`
        - https://github.com/onflow/cadence/issues/3712
- Generics
    - We already have generics for built-in APIs (e.g. storage API has `store`, `load`, etc)
    - Allow Cadence programs to define generic code
    - Pros/benefit
        - Avoid code duplication
    - Cons
        - High cost/benefit ratio
        - Increased complexity (see e.g. sentiment when generics where added to Go)
    - Can reuse/extend existing implementation of “internal” generics
    - Generic data structures?
        - Cost/benefit ratio high
    - Generic functions (parametric polymorphism)?
        - Difficult to design and implement due to run-time types
        - Implementation approaches (monomorphization or universal representation) add (potentially significant) overhead
            - Could maybe do “preprocessing” (monomorphization) off-chain. However, this would only allow using generic code with types that it was previously instantiated/preprocessed for
        - Cost/benefit ratio very high
    - Type argument inference?
        - Cost/benefit ratio very high
        - Performance overhead during type checking

Anti-features:

- Method overloading
    - Intentionally not a feature: Explicitness vs implicitness
        - Not obvious which function is called
        - New potential for bugs by developers
        - New potential for malicious code (obfuscation/misleading)
    - Overloading based on *type* is most dangerous
        - Code change unrelated to function call, like changing the type of the argument, might cause different code to be called
    - Might consider overloading based on *argument label* (basically part of function signature)
    - High cost/benefit ratio
    - Use case:
        - Avoid conflicts (e.g. FT + NFT: both have `deposit` function)
- Default values in arguments
    - Benefits?
    - Intentionally not a feature: Explicitness vs implicitness
        - Not obvious what value is used
        - New potential for bugs by developers
        - New potential for malicious code (obfuscation/misleading)
    - Need to ensure design and implementation re-evaluates and scoping is clear (e.g. NOT like Python)
        - Design problems/questions (call default expression in `view` context)

We'll discuss the remainder in the next working group call
