# Meeting 3

## Date: Apr 19th, 2024, Fri, 9-10 AM PDT

## How to add an agenda topic?

Any attendee can add an agenda topic by creating a pull request on this file and adding more topics in the agenda below.

## Agenda

### Update on Cadence 1.0

See office hours document: https://www.notion.so/flowfoundation/Cadence-1-0-Office-Hours-3f5f321dff6b47f7913018935d823846

### FLIP 242: Improve Public Capability Acquisition

https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/242

### FLIP 262: Require matching access modifiers for interface implementation members

https://github.com/onflow/flips/pull/263

Previously the proposal was called "Remove support for non-public access modifiers in interfaces."

Contained two parts:

1. Remove support for non-public access modifiers in interfaces
2. Require access modifiers for interface implementation members to match access modifiers in interface

Revised proposal is only the second part.

Feedback has been positive so far.

